
                                1 of 2 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 25, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Raytheon's President Is Elected Chairman

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 420 words


The Raytheon Company, a maker of air-defense missiles and other military
electronics products, yesterday elected its president, Dennis J. Picard, to be
chairman and chief executive effective March 1. He succeeds Thomas L. Phillips,
who will retire in March after leading the company for 22 years.

Mr. Picard, 58 years old, signed on with Raytheon in 1955, and, like Mr.
Phillips, has spent his entire career with the company. Mr. Phillips, 66, joined
the company in 1948.

Mr. Picard is being succeeded as president by Max E. Bleck, 63, who is president
of the Beech Aircraft Corporation, Raytheon's biggest subsidiary.

Raytheon, based in Lexington, Mass., derives about 60 percent of its sales from
military business and 40 percent from commercial businesses, like civilian
airplanes and consumer appliances. It also owns Amana Refrigeration Inc., a
maker of appliances; the Caloric Corporation, a producer of cooking equipment,
and the Speed Queen Company, a laundry equipment maker.

"The company is doing rather well," Mr. Picard said yesterday. "We've had five
record years in a row. We're quite fortunate to have the commercial side at this
time, and we hope to make it more profitable."

Raytheon builds the Patriot, Hawk, Sidewinder, Sparrow, Stinger and other
missiles along with an array of electronic military equipment.

Speaking of the changing prospects for military contractors, Mr. Picard said:
"The growth we expect would be less than we anticpated a year and a half ago.
But we still look forward to some growth in defense."

Beech Aircraft, he said, "has really turned around for us -- it became the
company we thought it would be when we bought it way back when."

Mr. Bleck, who has been president of Beech since 1987 and is a member of the
Raytheon board, was given credit for turing the aircraft operation around. The
board said he would serve a minimum of five years in the president's post and be
allowed to work beyond the normal retirement age of 65.

Before coming to Beech, Mr. Bleck served as president of the company's chief
rivals, the Cessna Aircraft Company and the Piper Aircraft Corporation.

Mr. Picard graduated from Northeastern University in 1962 with degrees in
electrical engineering and management. For a long time, he said, his dream was
to become a consulting engineer at Raytheon. About 15 years ago, he moved into
managing programs and in 1983 took over as general manager of the missile
systems division. He was named Raytheon president in August 1989.

NAME: Dennis J. Picard

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                                2 of 2 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Raytheon Is Looking Beyond the Pentagon

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1620 words

DATELINE: Lexington, Mass.


The Raytheon Company, the maker of the highly successful Patriot missile-defense
system and other sophisticated military hardware, has proved itself to be one of
the most technically proficient and profitable Pentagon contractors. But it has
yet to prove that in can make sustained profits on its more mundane products,
like Caloric stoves.

In the wake of the Persian Gulf war, Raytheon stands to benefit substantially
from new orders for the Patriot. But as one of only a handful of big Pentagon
contractors that have diversified to reduce their dependence on military work,
the company and its incoming chairman, Dennis J. Picard, see the best
opportunities for long-term growth in the company's nonmilitary businesses,
where profits have historically lagged behind the high-technology weapons
operations.

Hodgepodge of Businesses

With the Pentagon's budgets expected to continue declining for years, Mr. Picard
will be focusing more of Raytheon's resources on improving the performance of
the hodgepodge that makes up the rest of the company, including the Amana,
Caloric and Speed Queen appliance brands, the Beech line of small aircraft,
engineering companies that build and modify electric utilities and other big
industrial projects and even a textbook publisher.

Mr. Picard hopes to increase the nonmilitary businesses to 50 percent of
Raytheon's sales, from 40 percent now, while continuing to wring some growth
from the few new Pentagon programs available. But his real challenge will be to
bring the profitability of the commercial divisions -- including the
money-losing appliance lines -- up to that of military business. Aggregate
operating profits in the nonmilitary divisions last year were just 20 percent of
the companywide total, despite representing twice that much in sales.

Operating profits in the electronics segment, which includes Raytheon's military
business, rose 12.2 percent last year, to $667 million, and accounted for nearly
80 percent of the company's total operating profits.

"Given the environment we are in today, it pays to be a diversified company,"
said Steven Binder, an aerospace and military electronics analyst at Bear,
Stearns & Company. "The defense budget will continue to be under pressure and
there will be a continued decline in outlays. For a company like Raytheon, it's
good to be in commercial businesses as long as they're yielding a good return on
assets."

Besides the Patriot, which accounts for 12 percent of sales and is its largest
single project, Raytheon manufactures a host of other missiles and electronic
systems, making it the nation's second-largest supplier of military electronics,
behind the General Motors Corporation's Hughes Aircraft Company.

Yet the bulk of the growth in the company's sales, which increased 5.4 percent
last year, to $9.3 billion, came from the commercial businesses the company
acquired in the last 25 years.

Some of the nonmilitary businesses have proved to be disappointing, and some
analysts criticize the company for what they see as a lack of focus. Raytheon
executives do not even try to establish that there is more than a token amount
of synergy in the company's welter of holdings, but they do point to their
increasing success at squeezing more profits from the nonmilitary divisions
after years of lackluster performance in that area.

Operating profits at the Beech Aircraft Corporation continued a three-year
recovery last year, rising 82 percent, to $80 million, while the engineering
unit earned $49 million, up 58 percent. The only part of the company not to show
improvement was the appliance business, which was hurt by the downturn in
consumer spending, high operating costs and a one-time charge for closing an old
plant. The appliance unit lost $8 million last year after earning $41 million
the year before. Raytheon as a whole, however, had $557 million in profits last
year, up from $529 million in 1989.

Today Raytheon faces an economy in which the engineering units are likely to
continue doing well, the small-aircraft business is likely to be flat and the
appliance business will remain under severe pressure. The bottom-line result,
analysts said, will be a steady, if unspectacular, flow of profits to balance
the military business both on the bottom line and on Wall Street, where
investors have been shunning all but a few of the pure military contractors.

"Basically Raytheon has been able to sustain earnings growth over the long haul
at high single-digit rates because of being diversified, and that's pretty
good," said Howard Rubel, an analyst at C. J. Lawrence Inc.

Patriot's Success

Raytheon can probably afford to be patient with its nonmilitary businesses for a
few more years because its military work is likely to hold up quite well despite
the precipitous decline in Pentagon spending. The Patriot's success alone will
help keep the company's order books jammed.

Mr. Binder of Bear, Stearns estimated that the backlog of Patriot orders could
reach $5 billion by the end of the year, up from $2.3 billion at the end of
1990, because of likely orders from Saudi Arabia, Israel, Turkey, Greece and
other nations.

The Pentagon is wrapping up a five-year program of Patriot purchases, but the
budget proposals sent to Congress by the Bush Administration earlier this month
included additional financing that could benefit Raytheon. The Administration
wants to spend $88 million for software upgrades for the Patriot. In addition it
is ordering $140 million in new spare parts for the system, and the budget for
the Strategic Defense Initiative contains $170 million for the study of an
advanced version of the Patriot.

The architect of Raytheon's diversification was Thomas L. Phillips, an engineer
who will retire on March 1 at age 66 after serving as chief executive since
1968. His successor, Mr. Picard, who is 58, is also a former missile engineer.
Mr. Phillips and Mr. Picard declined requests for interviews.

Microwave Pioneer

The diversification effort started in the mid-1960's, when Mr. Phillips was
looking for a way to find a commercial market for Raytheon's expertise in
microwave technology, an offshoot of the company's longstanding work in radar.
(Executives still like to tell the story of the Raytheon engineer who discovered
the cooking properties of microwaves in the late 1940's when he stood too close
to a device called a magnetron and a candy bar in his breast pocket melted.)

Mr. Phillips's first gamble was to buy Amana, a top manufacturer of
refrigerators, and to team Amana's appliance engineers with Raytheon's
scientists. The result was the first consumer microwave oven, the Amana
Radar-Range, which dominated the market for seven years until the mid-1970's,
when Japanese and other foreign manufacturers came in with lower-priced
products.

Most attempts by Pentagon contractors to diversify away from military products
have been disastrous, as when the Grumman Corporation tried to build city buses
or when the Boeing Company tried to break into the business of selling subway
cars. Among big Pentagon suppliers, the Rockwell International Corporation is
one of the few that has made the transition to primary reliance on nonmilitary
products.

Despite its promising start with Amana, Raytheon's diversification, too, has had
its share of problems. Take the acquisition of Beech in 1980 for $800 million.
The deal seemed promising. Beech was a leader in the general aviation market --
the business of making small civilian planes.

But soon after the deal closed, demand for small planes among private buyers and
commuter airlines plummeted. The market did not begin a recovery for eight
years. Beech's profits all but evaporated until the last two years. The
company's engineering units also had a difficult period during the 1980's,
partly because of the problems faced by their customers in the petroleum and
energy industries. Attempts to break into businesses like word-processing
flopped.

Strong Outlook for Engineering

Most analysts think the engineering units will show the highest growth rates in
the next few years. The company's United Engineers subsidiary is aggressively
competing for contracts to help reduce emissions from electric utilities, a
business that is expanding rapidly.

Beech is more of a question mark. Mr. Rubel said the general aviation market had
softened again after its modest rebound, largely because fewer companies are
buying corporate aircraft. Beech is being helped by a contract to supply the Air
Force with 211 of its Beechjet 400 for use in training tanker pilots. But even
with that lift, Mr. Rubel said he sees Beech's profits doing no better than
remaining flat in the next few years.

The appliance business is the biggest problem facing Raytheon. The largest
company within its appliance segment is Amana, which is generally regarded as
healthy, but the money-losing laggard in the appliance division is Caloric,
which primarily makes electric and gas ranges.

Spurred by sluggish demand and high costs, Raytheon closed one Caloric factory
last year, taking a $17.5 million charge in the third quarter. Raytheon is
trying to reduce costs at Caloric and throughout the appliance division by
modernizing plants and combining the Amana, Caloric and Speed Queen units as
much as possible.

Raytheon's combined appliance lines, however, are only the fifth largest in an
industry where market share and profits are increasingly concentrated in the top
two or three brands, like Whirlpool and General Electric, and some analysts
think Raytheon may one day sell out. For now, however, the company insists that
it is committed to the business.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 21, 1991, Thursday

CORRECTION:

A front-page chart in Business Day yesterday about the 1990 financial results
for the Raytheon Company mislabeled one set of figures in some editions. The
chart showed sales and operating income, not sales and net income.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dennis J. Picard, the incoming chairman of the Raytheon
Company, faces a challenge in improving the performance of the company's
nonmilitary businesses. (Raytheon) (pg. D1); One of the improved performers
among Raytheon's nonmilitary holdings is the Beech Aircraft Corporation, which
saw operating profits rise in the last three years. Beech's plant in Wichita,
Kan., is the production center for the company's successful Starship aircraft. (
Beech Aircraft) (pg. D8)

Graph: "Trying to Shift the Focus" shows Raytheon 1990 sales and operating
income (Source: Company reports) (D1)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company
